lecture 3, 4


# lec4

## modules, random, import

### What is the difference then between libraries and header files?

header file. Okay, header file, I'm sorry the speaker is a little quiet here.

**What is the difference then between libraries and header files?**

So a library is perhaps the most generic term. It

refers to code that someone else has written,

perhaps even you that you can use and reuse in your own projects.

A header file is a feature of languages like C and C plus plus and some other languages

that simply specifies, among other things,

the functions that have been implemented for you.

But in a language like C,

your code would generally be in a file like something

dot see that's where you actually implement those functions,

but in C you would have another file called something

dot h a So called header file and that contains

only the names of those functions and a little more

detail that essentially teaches the compiler the program you're using,

what functions will exist.

Some languages like python don't make that distinction between your header files

and your actual code files rather it's all in one file,

like something called random dot pi.

That's in some sense,

a little more convenient for programmers and so

not all languages take that hetero file approach,

but a header file is something very specific and technical.

A library is the general term and indeed the focus overall today.

### Can you set these probabilities not using these same functions?

Can you set the probabilities?

But you can absolutely implement some of

your own functions or use more sophisticated

functions that do exist in this library and others to exercise more control.

These are meant to be very user friendly and simple functions.

Certainly the ones we looked at that give you equal probability

for all of those but absolutely you could skew things though.

Hopefully if you're implementing a gambling game or the

like you're not actually making some cards more probable

than others.

## sys.argv

### Could we pass the full name of one person ?

```shell

pythonn name.py David Malan
```

instead

```shell

python name.py "David Malan"

```

on how we handled the error before with the index error

or how now we're just pro actively avoiding

all index errors altogether by just checking first.

Is it too few. Is it too many or is it exactly what we want

to go?

Oh yeah, thank you.

Um So I was wondering you you touched upon kind of using your full name.

Um Could we,

could we then um is there a way going forward that perhaps we have

people that want their full names and want their just their first name?

That we separate that into like oh this person has full name, This person has

just the one name? Absolutely.

And allow me to allow me to propose,

we come back to that support for multiple names but

indeed we could do that and I should know too

though we can support full names right now if I

do this instead of typing in David space malin,

which is problematic because again by definition of how RGB works,

each word ends up in a specific location in the list.

But if I add quotes, single quotes or double quotes at the command line.

Now python will view this as to total things, the name of the file and this full name.

And now when I hit enter I don't see the quotes,

the whole thing is passed in as my full name and if I want to

adapt this further for multiple people will be able to do that as well.

### Can you use multiple else's statements if ... elif ... else statement?

* TLDR: No.

I want to ask you can we use multiple else statement?

Can you use multiple else's statements?

No else is the last catch all statement that you can have.

You can have multiple L if statements in the middle but not multiple else's

Okay.

## sys.exit

### Can we use multiple arguments in the prompt?

a short answer? Yes.

I think if I understand your question

correctly whereby you're proposing to have many words

at the end of the command and you want to access those individual words.

Absolutely. At some point it gets a little fragile.

I would say if you're typing so many words at the prompt

that the order really matters.

And so it turns out there's a lot of programs and there's functionality in

python that can allow you to provide those values like name or age or

any number of other fields in any order you want but pass in a

bit more information texturally that tells the program how you want to use it.

So in short what you're describing is possible.

## slices

### 
Yeah, let's go over to Melvin.

Mhm.

Can we slice starting from the end of the argument argument vector?

You can you can slice something from the end of the argument vector

and this might uh this might blow one's mind a little bit.

Let me go ahead and do this.

Uh Let's see,

let me go ahead and do negative one at the end

using a negative number here and running the same command.

We've just uninvited wrong, shin from receiving a name tag here.

So if you use a negative number it has the effect of counting

to the uh in the other direction from the end of the list.

### Q

Yeah. Eric question

Hi.

So I remember very early on when we were talking about

only having two decimal places in a in a float value.

Um

Does this, is that in the same vein like because we use the colon .2 f.

So that is that the same thing then why would the F.

B included then in the 0.2 F as opposed to here. When you just have the numbers.

A really good question and it's just the short answer is that context matters.

So there's only so many keys on our keyboard.

And so we sometimes use the same symbols for different things.

So what you're alluding to is the format code in an F.

String for actually formatting a number using a colon.

Using a period, using a number, using the letter F and so forth.

And that is very specific to the F string feature of python.

This case has nothing to do with any of that syntax per se.

This is just using a colon in a different

context to solve this problem to implement a slice.

The authors of python could have chosen another symbol,

but honestly looking down at my keyboard here,

we don't have that many to choose from that are easy to type.

So sometimes they have different meanings. A good question as well,

## cowsay

### Um So my first question is

the packages that you're calling um to use in the program,

are they the same as um let's say

I'm doing java the same as calling a class of java file in order to use its functions.

the first question about the comparison with java.

Python packages are similar to java packages where

you have something dot something dot something at

the top of your program that gives you access to a class or something else.

Python itself supports classes more on those down the

road and you can do very similar things in

python is you can do with java but the

analog really is python packages to java packages here.

### And my second question is,

what's the actual purpose of using command line arguments as you've used? Because

it's not really the best way to,

as you say, the user friendly

where as in

let's say the person who's

using the program doesn't know what it, what they want,

what the program is asking them

and they just say, okay, run the program and

nothing happens and they don't understand it

and then they say okay if the if someone tells them,

oh the program is asking you to print its name

and you have to pass into the why couldn't you just prompt

the user to say please enter your name and then print out its

here's the name, say hello, my name. Is this


As for command line arguments, you ask a good question. Why do we use them?

Especially if they're a little yes user friendly.

They're a little less user friendly to people who aren't in this zoom.

To be honest,

you and I as we learn more and more about

programming and more about command line arguments I dare say,

will become more comfortable with and tend to prefer the

ability to customize commands using these command line arguments.

Why

productivity?

It tends to make you faster because you get

into the habit of knowing exactly how you can

configure your software without having to manually answer questions

and case in point all of this time.

Have we been running python of something dot pi?

You could imagine not doing that.

You can imagine typing only python hitting enter and then you're

prompted for the name of the file you want to run.

So you type in something dot pi and then it runs

not a big deal.

But I I would argue that over time you're gonna get a little tired of that

tedium and you would much prefer to just

automate the command again and again and again.

Especially with little conveniences like being able to hit up and down in your

keyboard history so as to rerun the same command automation is big too.

If you emerge from a class like this and start using python two

automate processes at work or for personal projects

or the like the ability to specify all

of your inputs on the one line just means you can get work done more quickly.

So hands down. Absolutely. Using command line arguments is a more arcane

feature of systems that most of us are no

longer as familiar with because of Windows and Mac.

Os and other operating systems that have buttons and buoys and menus.

But the more comfortable yet you get with programming, I dare say,

the more you will tend to prefer these capabilities

because they allow you to do things more quickly

## APIs

### Can we use break instead sys.exit()

Questions now

on this program which integrates python with a real world's third party

A P I

questions here from

how can we use break instead of systems. Exit, exit. Good question.

But no break again is used to break out of things like loops like we

saw earlier sys dot exit is used to break out of the whole program itself.

Use break for loops for now and uses dot exit to terminate the whole program.

### Can we change the results the name?

Other questions now on this program are others Mohammed.

Uh

from where we bring the name of the key results

from? Where do we get the name of the key

results itself. Can we change the

results the name? You cannot. So we could in our program.

So the keys that come back in, that Jason response to be clear,

come from itunes dot apple dot com.

Some engineer,

some team of engineers decided for us what all of those keys would be called,

including track name, results,

results count and everything else you and I

can absolutely store those same values in variables.

Just like I'm doing here with oh just like I'm doing here with results,

you can rename those keys, anything you want using python variables.

But the Jason response is coming from that third party server.

## fast Q&A

### What sort of ascii graphics is it capable of putting the cows a package?

Other questions on this approach here. Uh

If I'm saying it right,

yes, so I have a question related to

package. Sure. So like yes. So sort of what sort of asking graphics uh is it

capable of uh of putting the cows a package? Um I would refer you to the U. R. L.

And the slides earlier.

Uh If only because it's more thorough,

they have not just cows but tyrannosaurus rexes and several other animals as well.

I should emphasize that this is not a package.

I suspect you will use much in the real world.

It's really just meant to be representative of the types of packages you can

install but allow me to refer to the documentation for what more is there.

But asking art uh is the all we had before, there were emojis,

let alone gifts and jpeg and pings, but it's what is immortalized in cows.

### If I use so many methods of and if I don't want to write to dot then what I have to do correct?

my question is if every time I don't want to write anything like as we as we as dot

then what I want to write as you say that again. If you

uh

every time if if I use so many methods of

and if I don't want to write every time

dot then what I have to do correct? You let me just pull up a blank file here real quick.

So if you're tired,

if you have import sys at the top and you have lots of lines like sys

dot org or sys dot exit and you don't want to keep typing sis that's fine.

You can say instead from sys import org, comma, exit.

And now you can literally just say RgB down here, bracket one.

You can literally just say exit. You don't need to prefix it anymore.

However, you cannot have your own exit function

or variable. You can't have your own R G function or variable.

You have to decide which is more important.

### Can we use Python to develop mobile apps?

Yeah. Let's see

if I'm saying that right?

Yeah. Hi, David, I wanted to ask that, can we make mobile labs in python later?

What? Later in python? Sorry?

Mobile app.

Mobile app. Oh, um probably. But not really.

Like python is not a language people reach for when implementing mobile apps.

I suspect there are libraries that make it possible.

I'm completely guessing, but it's just not.

Sorry. Oh,

can we meet again?

Yeah,

I researched on that but I tried something here and

there but they were not died good in design.

Yeah,

I think for mobile apps you generally for android want to use

java or Cartland for IOS you want to use swift or objective.

C or you want to build for both platforms at the same time using html,

javascript and CSS using libraries you might use python on

the back end for the database or for the servers,

but it would be unusual if even possible to use python for the maps themselves?

### Can we make our own web APIs?

I had one more question to like, can we make our own a PS for like? Mhm.

Yeah, absolutely

a good question. Hard to answer quickly.

Um, carter, can you google python rest api and try to blink to a library?

Um short answer.

You can uh if you're interested in this,

I would take CS fifty's course on web programming where

one of the week's focuses on making a P.

I. S.

If carter you wouldn't mind pasting into the chat. CS 50 W

too hard to answer a single question. But I can give you a whole week. Of course.

### Do you have to import all the files you have imported in those libraries?

When you imported the library you have created. Uh do you have to import

uh

all the fights you have imported in those libraries you have created

or you don't call them anymore in your main

uh so if I'm hearing you correctly, if your own library uses other libraries,

that's fine.

So long as the library imports them, that's fine.

You the developer don't need to import everything. It all happens automatically.

Recursive. Lee, so to speak.

### is that the method that you can use in web scraping?

mama. What if I'm saying it? Right.

Yeah.

Okay.

Hello. So the method that you used um with the link.

Um is that the same method that you can use in web scraping?

Oh, short answer. Yes.

So web scraping for those unfamiliar refers to writing code that scrapes data

from websites that is grabs the data and then does something with it.

Um,

you can absolutely use the requests library and the

get function to get the contents of a website.

Like I've done,

it tends to be more painful because websites change and sometimes your code breaks,

but there's other libraries that you can use to make your life a little easier.

And if you google something called beautiful soup, if carter,

you wouldn't mind googling that too.

This is a very popular library to use with the requests library. Beautiful soup.

And I suspect the name means like, oh, it's a beautiful web page,

but it's a soupy mess of html tags in the like makes it much easier to analyze that.

But when you can using a P I. S like itunes so much better because it's clean data.

Good question.

### What the difference between module, package and library?


Others. Uh let's see uh

if I'm saying that right.

Mm hmm.

Yes. Hi.

I was it's not really clear for me what is the difference between a module,

library and a package?

Sure. So in python, specifically a module is a library that's implemented in a file.

So if you have um like uh we used um,

random random dot pi is a file somewhere on your Mac or pc

or the server you're using that contains functions that we're using a package.

is code that's in a folder in python and

the difference is that it can be more structured.

You can have folders and sub folders and

you can organize it a little differently and you

can expose only a subset of the functions

with that said if you read python's documentation,

they say module everywhere, even when they mean package.

So honestly they're effectively synonyms and it

doesn't really matter what you say.

And they're all libraries at the end of the day to

um But those are the biggest different.

Those are the simplest differences modules.

A file, packages, a folder but that's not always the case.


### Is it safe to use other's code ?


Other questions. Amber.

Hi can you hear me? We can. Yes.

So this was something that happened with Java but

I have a question with python libraries. And that is when you're importing a library

it's technically locally onto your I. D.E Onto your machine.

So it's not technically live on the web where someone can mess with the code per se.

And then if you really um

let's just say you decide to use that library locally on your machine.

It's not going to do funny things.

Well yes and no.

So first of all when you install a package like I

did with pip you are indeed downloading it from a server,

installing it on your own Mac and pc and then that's it it shouldn't

be making connections to the internet or snooping on you or anything like that.

However, at the end of the day,

you can do anything with code And it's possible that

a library could be doing what you're worried about their

and one of the biggest risks to about using

other people's code is you have to trust them.

And honestly,

who's to say that today my machine is not

now hacked because the cows a package while pretending to

just say move on the screen is actually deleting all

of my files or stealing all of my passwords.

Like there's a huge amount of trust that goes into using other people's code.

Either commercial or open source.

One of the upsides though of open source and the fact

that you can go look at the source code for cows

is the presumption is there's enough of us,

smart people in the world more by by the day that read code odds

are someone's gonna notice if the person

who wrote cows is doing something inappropriate.

However, it might be too late for you.

So at the end of the day, the only advice I really have is to

be beware, be careful,

don't use any and all packages, make sure you're using reputable ones.

But even that just decreases the risk. It doesn't eliminate it.

Thank you.

And I really hope the calcite packages safe.

Otherwise we created a problem here Maria.

### Can we use argc in Python sys module like c or c plus plus?

Hello there. Thank you, promising

lecture. Can we use taxi

when we check conditional, Did we write a name or not.

Oh, say the first part of the question again?

Can we use

X. C.

XC.

I am not hearing that word. Right.

Oh except I agree.

Unlike like we use we use it in C plus plus.

Uh

I'm sorry. Okay. Um Python does not have RGC.

Python only has Argov but because python has a length function, L E N.

You can get the length of our G. Which is the same as RGC.

So the only way to get access to command line

arguments in python is using Cis like we did today.

It doesn't happen automatically like it doesn't C and C plus plus.

### what is the type of the requests response ?

* TLDR: response object

Let's go to a bar.

Hi, I was wondering in the itunes file online. Eight. What is the

what is the type of response? Let me go to line eight.

Oh, what is the type of response? That is a good question. Um

It's a request object. Let me check, python

requests. Uh get

so when in doubt you read the documentation because I don't recall what it is called.

So let me see if I can find this real fast for you.

This is the documentation that we linked earlier. I'm going to a P I reference a P I.

For what it's worth. Doesn't have to mean a third party remote server. Local code.

Local functions and files can have their own a P I. S.

It's a very generic term meaning,

what are the functions? What are the inputs?

What are the outputs same thing on the itunes side.

So here I am in this function and let me see if I can find returns, it returns this.

So we'll talk about this later in the class,

python does support object oriented programming 00.

P. And there's a class in the request package called response. So um

a bit literally returns a response object.

### Can we write our own AI assistant?

* TLDR: Yes, and there is a course on Python AI on cs50.

Let's see other questions. Time for maybe two more here. Yes, I'm saying it right.

Yes sir.

I have a couple of questions. Uh

can we create I have seen on youtube many programs like

creating the job is with python creating ai with python.

Is it possible to create like your personal assistant on python?

Absolutely. Um python is very versatile I would say per the other question.

The only thing that's really not good at or designed for is mobile apps,

but absolutely for artificial intelligence type applications,

it is incredibly popular.

You yourself could write the Ai functions. However, there's a lot of commercial and

free libraries you can use to do that for facial recognition.

Um For objects in optical character recognition, speech synthesis,

natural language processing and the like there's third party a p i is that you

can send audio recordings to and they'll translate it back for you short answer.

Yes.

And by the end of this class you should have not

firsthand experience with that but enough programming experience to tackle it.

Um carter,

if you could paste the Ai class you are l a colleague of

ours teaches a class on ai in python that you might really like

### How human invent Python?

hey I just I addressed some questions that is

not related to but it's not related to the

lecture but it's like how how do one like

who how does one make a programming language?

I just a question how did bison came to the world?

How and what was the first question? How does someone make a programming language?

Yeah,

yeah,

it's a good question.

And if this is an academic interest,

you can take whole courses on this because all languages were invented by humans.

Um

The

I mean to oversimplify a bit,

you the human decide what are all of the functions gonna be called,

what is all the syntax gonna be the curly braces, the parentheses, The equal signs.

You come up with what's called a grammar and a grammar like in english or any language

is like the fundamental syntax that you have

to use to express yourself in that language,

then what you generally do is you write something like an interpreter.

So someone years ago wrote a program called python and its purpose in life

is to read a file top to bottom left to right and convert each of

the functions that sees each of the

variables that sees essentially into the equivalent

zeros and ones that the computer understands and that's a bit of an overstatement.

You don't have to worry about the zeros and ones,

but essentially you use an existing language to write an interpreter for

a new language and you know what if people like your language,

someone else 10,

20 years from now might use your language

to write an interpreter for yet another language.

And so we keep layering and layering on top of things. Um, and python itself.

Honestly, I would refer you to Wikipedia.

If you google Wikipedia python, you'll see the history.

It came out, I think in the late nineties it was the brainchild of one individual

who was involved with the community for many years

now. There's a whole group that governs updates to.

It's, the language itself keeps evolving.

I know we still have hands up, but we need to get out of the space here on campus.

So I hope you won't mind if we officially adjourn here. Thank you all so much.

We will see you next week. If you can join us for more

python, Have a good weekend.