CS50's Introduction to Programming with Python

# Functions, Variables

## Q

About one other question here on programming with python

or Hello world or syntax more generally.

Thanks for that question Jeremiah, I think we have you back

once again. And I was trying to ask if

it is not possible to run the computer using the terminal window

I think I heard. Is it not?

If it's possible to run the program without the terminal window.

Are you okay? You froze for me again, but let me in for what the question is.

So in this environment as I've configured my computer,

I can only run these python programs via the terminal window.

Now, that's good for me,

The programmer or the person who's trying to learn how to program.

But it's not very good if you want to ship

this software and have other people use your actual code.

You can absolutely write programs and then allow other people to use,

not a command line interface, but a graphical user interface or gooey G.

U I.

This is just one mechanism and perhaps I think

the best one with which to start writing code

because eventually it's going to give us a lot

more control allow me to forge ahead here.

## Q

Horatio if I'm saying that right,

your question.

Okay.

Mhm

Okay, well, first of all, thank you for this. Great course.

So my question here is something you mentioned

that you can write code inside of word,

even if if you wanted to you just have to format it correctly.

So

could I want to write code inside a word or for example Microsoft Excel.

And what's the barrier to doing that And why why does

visual code studio is is the tool that we choose?

What makes it better than Word or Excel. If all we need to do is write text.

A really good question and allow me to very explicitly say to

the entire internet that you should not write code with Microsoft word.

I mentioned that only because it's a tool via which you can write text and code is

at the end of the day just text but it's not the right tool for the job.

We don't need bold facing underlining paragraphs and the like we generally

want something much simpler than Microsoft word or google docs and Soviets.

Code is an example of just a more general purpose text editor.

Its purpose in life is to allow you the human to edit text.

Nowadays these text editors come with many more features.

In fact you'll notice that even in my code here, even though it's just one line

there's a bit of color to it. The word print for me is appearing in blue.

The parentheses are black and we'll see as we might write more lines of

code more and more of the lines will come to life in various colors.

Now that's just one feature of a text editor will see to that.

It has features like this built in terminal window.

It's going to have a built in tool for debugging or finding problems with

code and it's just a very popular tool nowadays but there are many,

many others out there.

You're welcome to use them for this course and beyond.

We just happen to use this one in large part to because you can also use V.

S code nowadays

for free in the cloud.

##



## Question

Yes. Faiza if I'm saying it. Right.

Mhm.

Yeah. So the F street. Could you elaborate on the definition of it? Sure.

An F string is just any string of text that's surrounded by quotes

like to double quotes or two single quotes that starts with an F.

At the very beginning

we have seen F strings before because among their features are the ability

to plug in values inside of the string,

inside of those curly braces that we saw earlier earlier.

We did that to say hello, Common name, butt plug in the value of name here.

I'm using F strings for another feature.

They have a lot of number formatting capabilities built in and if you use this

admittedly cryptic syntax of putting not just Xeon curly braces but Z colon comma.

According to python's documentation,

that is the pattern you used to tell it

to automatically add commas to your long numbers.

That's all

Good question.

## Question

How about 1, 1 other on these on format strings floats rounding or the like

Yeah, how about over to Ethan

mhm

Yes, so I have a question.

So when using floats um is there like a cap on how many decimal points you can have?

Really good question. So floats. Yes. And this is a problem.

We'll revisit before long floats cannot represent numbers infinitely precisely

in a nutshell because computers only have so much memory,

they only have a finite amount of memory.

You and I only have a finite amount of hardware inside of the computer.

So at some point they're going to have

to round right now I'm rounding automatically effectively.

Computers will eventually have to do that for us

but we'll see that as a fundamental problem.

Before long

## Question

 1. Conditionals

# Loops

 1. Q

 

